[MUSIC]
In this video,
we get to look at how we can create a name
tables in Excel from the discussion video.
We talked about how tables were
really powerful automation tool.
So what do we mean by that?
Well, we've just spent quite a lot of
time helping Zara to create a lot of
calculations and Named Ranges to make
it easier to work with this data.
But imagine that somebody with
maybe a little less skill
had to add a new record at
the bottom of the data.
They would need to make sure they'd
copy those formulas down correctly,
added the data validation,
added the conditional formatting, and
updated all the Named Ranges.
That's a big ask.
It's going to take a while, and
most importantly, they may not
have the skill to do it correctly.
So automating this process becomes
very important to businesses.
And it does become very easy.
All they have to do is use a table.
Now, not all data lends itself
to be converted to a table.
We're looking for
databases of data like this,
organized into columns where they
store one type of information, and
where each row represents a record
about one person or one thing,
no blank rows, no blank columns,
but blank cells are fine.
And ideally,
the data is not touching anything else.
If that's the case,
creating a table is very easy.
We just click somewhere in the data.
We come up to our "Insert" tab,
and we click Table.
It double checks that this is
the range you have intended.
And if you followed all the guidelines
that we stipulated, that will be correct.
If it isn't correct, you can always go and
select the right range.
And my table does have headers,
so I'm just going to say okay.
Now, quite a few things have happened.
We've got some great formatting.
Auto filter buttons being added
to the top of each column.
And perhaps more subtle,
a brand new ribbon tab has appeared,
called Table Design, or in other
versions of Excel, table tools design.
Now, if I click outside of the Table,
you see, I don't have that ribbon tab.
And when I click back in, it reappears.
So please make sure when you
are working in the Table
that you've clicked inside it.
Now, coming up to the Table Design
ribbon on the left hand side,
you can see the table has
automatically been given a name.
Table1 is not a great name.
So one of the first things I'd
suggest is you replace this.
And I'm going to call this tbl_Supplier.
The same rules apply for
table names as for Named Ranges.
The tbl is not required at all, but
it actually makes it much easier
to distinguish our tables from
our Named Ranges, and
to find them quickly in the autocomplete.
So it's just a recommendation.
Once you finish typing, you can
just click away or press enter, and
there's your table appropriately named.
Let's have a look at that again.
So I'm going to come to
the MC Invoice Report.
And we're going to turn
this into a table as well.
Click somewhere in the data,
come to table.
But this time,
I'm going to hover for a moment.
And you'll see the keyboard
shortcut is "CTRL+T".
Next time, we'll use that one.
I'm going to click table, and
then I can just press Enter, and
my table has been added.
Now, what if I needed to remove
this table for some reason?
Let's just say, we don't want it anymore.
Well, that's easy to do.
But before you do, you need to decide
if you want to keep the formatting.
Because when you remove the table,
the formatting will not
automatically be removed.
So to remove the formatting,
we come to our Table Styles and
just choose Light,
which has put it back to how it
was before we added the table.
And then to remove the table,
we click Convert to Range.
It double checks, it's fine.
Removing the table will not impact
the workbook or formulas in any way.
So we can just press Enter, and now we're
back to what's called a regular range.
We do, however, actually want the table.
So let's create it again.
But this time, I'll use the keyboard
shortcut Ctrl+t and Enter.
Now, we do not want to call it Table3.
So I'm going to come up here and
call this tbl_MC, and then Enter.
So far, we have looked at how to
create a table, we name the table,
and we remove the table.
In the next video, we can have a bit
more fun, making our tables look good.